# Personal opinion on:

### Parra, D., Brusilovsky, P., and Trattner, C. (2014). See What You Want to See: Visual User-Driven Approach for Hybrid Recommendation. International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces, Proceedings IUI.

In this paper, the authors present _SetFusion_, their system for users to be able to have control over the source of the recommendations they are getting from recommender systems. This is done via a set of sliders, in which users can manipulate the amount of recommendations they can get from the different recommendation sources, and a venn diagram, which displays the results, letting them know which recommendation comes from which recommendator, or multiple ones.

The research was done in the topic of recommender systems for research talks or articles. Specifically, they based their system on CN3 (Conference navigator 3), which is the third version of a web system aimed at supporting conference attendees. This means, the system aims to recommend talks to the attendees of conferences. After this, a description of all the features of _SetFusion_ can be read, which are split between the list of talks recommended, the sliders widget and the venn diagram widget.

For testing of the system, they used two conferences, CSCW 2013, and UMAP 2013. The first one was a test-run of the system, with a two-step process which made it feel unnatural to use. In the second conference, improvements were made to the system, and a more natural way of use was implemented in the testing. With this, the results obtained from the test users increased significatively. Despite all this, the size of the test pool of users is quite small, and a bigger set of users would allow for results to be more significative. Besides that, the two tests were performed on different conferences. Despite the fact that running the tests on the same conference is difficult, because it would take a whole year of waiting before another test can be run, it would be nice to have a follow up, with a test on the same conference twice, to compare the improvements on the system, as the different results in the two conferences tested may be because the two conferences have different kind of audience.

The idea behind this is pretty interesting, as the users gain more control over their recommendations, which results in the user having a better acceptation of the system. The topic in which the paper was made is specifically good for this kind of recommendations, as the users attending the conferences are expected to be highly [] into the area, and they probably have a very good idea of what they actually want to see from it. Because of this, choosing from where they want to take recommendations is easier, and can yield better results. A similar test, but with another topic of recommendations would be interesting. For example, I'd like to see how such a method would work for an e-commerce system, where the users can choose, for example, if they want to take recommendations based on their bought items, their location, their activity, or something else.

The problem with this method is: it takes effort from the user. Often, what a user wants from a recommender system is for it to be as low-effort for them as possible. Sometimes, if the full set of items is not big enough, going through the process of adjusting the recommendations they get, the users might feel like it is just pointless work, as they might as well just read the whole set of items, and select what might interest them themselves. I believe this is an interesting approach, but it definitely wouldn't work on any system, but rather it is for some really niche systems, where the users are actually willing to go through the trouble of messing with the parameters to get different recommendations.

